[Music]
[Applause]
thank you thank you for coming to this
night having to work your way through
right I think you've seen these
supporters of free speech out there what
I want you to do tonight is see or
listen to why this is so dangerous
because it is against the established
order it's against the established way
things are and I think that's what
frightens people I think it's what
scares people and so here it tonight ask
me questions I'll take any question
you've got let's go back to the
beginning because remember this populist
movement in Donald Trump is not the
cause of this they're the product of
this September 18 2008 The Oval Office
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke
Secretary of Treasury Hank Paulson a guy
used to work for Goldman Sachs walk into
the Oval Office a couple of days after
Lehman Brothers was put into bankruptcy
in London they tell him by five o'clock
tonight we need one trillion dollars in
cash one trillion dollars in cash or the
American financial system is going to
implode in 48 hours
the world financial system will implode
in 72 hours and in two weeks we'll have
global anarchy and chaos repeat that Ben
Bernanke and Hank Paulson are not
they're not given or hyperbole very
low-key very professional people in
finance one trillion dollars by the
close of business or the American
financial system the British financial
system the EU the bank of Tokyo all of
it will come down in four or five days
they accomplished
with Kaiser Wilhelm and the Japanese
military hunter and Mussolini and Hitler
and Mao Zedong and the Soviets and
Stalin all of them Osama bin Laden they
accomplished
what did judeo-christian West's greatest
enemies could not how'd that happen
here's the elites and people like you
and me people that bought into the
system and who's been held accountable
Namie one banker one CEO one law firm
one accounting firm no equities been
taken no bonuses were actually really
deferred how did we get out of this the
most progressive president in the
history of our country Barack Obama
agreed to the balance sheet of the
Federal Reserve that day was eight
hundred eighty billion dollars the
balance sheet on the day that Donald
Trump raised his hand was four point
five trillion dollars here's what we did
we basically just flooded the zone with
liquidity we bailed out the party of
Davos and let me say differently the
party of Davos the scientific
engineering managerial financial
cultural elite with their political
employees the permanent local class bail
themselves out it's not a free bailout I
think today it's forty one trillion
dollars of debt to central governments
has a corollary in your life remember
and these are all in the minutes it's in
the minutes of congressional hearings
administer the Federal Reserve in the
minutes of the Bank of England they say
at the time hey this is going to cause
interest rates to go to zero so the
2,500 or 3,000 years of the
judeo-christian West's we taught the
good householder to save you get zero
you're a sucker you have a savings
account you're a sucker the pension
funds have the biggest gap the pension
plants are the biggest gap in history
getting worse why you can't get returns
on the pensions you can't do a public
bond offering in the United States to
fix a school or to build a water system
why there's not enough juice in the
offer
we basically socialized the risk for the
wealthy if you've owned intellectual
property real assets are stocks in the
last 10 15 or 20 years of class since
the collapse in 2008 you've had the
greatest run in human history and yet in
the United States 50% of our population
can't put together 400 dollars of cash
in an emergency 62% of the jobs that
were created before President Trump got
there were jobs a living wage or below
the living wage and living wage means no
extras no no holidays nothing for the
kids it means essentially a sense of
basically subsistence it is the cause
the elite in this world are the cause of
the problem not the populace and
certainly not Donald Trump when I
stepped into the campaign in mid-august
he was down I don't know 12 14 16 points
you know double digits down every
battleground state I said no those
numbers matter there's only two numbers
matter right track wrong track the
country still thought was on the wrong
track they admired President Obama they
admired President Obama and his wife but
they did not feel that he had brought
the change the country needed more
importantly pancadão had been doing
research for 20 or 30 years and said the
American working class the American
middle class for the first time in our
history 70 percent felt the country was
in decline as the elites were
comfortable with this the leads were
comfortable with the manage decline not
just to the United States or the West
that says very simple you were just
gonna do a compare and contrast she is a
guardian of a corrupt and incompetent
elite and near that you're the Tribune
of the people the agent of change and
we're just gonna hammer that every day
and that's what took us to victory
remember in the United States since 2000
the deplorable zs-- were created what
would how was it deplorable is how is
this working classes this angry working
class how was it created
we had three extinction-level offense
number one the rise of China the
deindustrialization of our country
they'd be all the chipping of the jobs
to East Asia the hive a edit
manufacturing jobs if you read hillbilly
lg's the great sociological study of the
Trump deplorable by JD Vance from you he
says there's a direct correlation
between the factories that went to China
that jobs that went with him and the
opioid crisis tariffs this trade war is
not about terror it's not about tax it's
not a tariffs on goods it's about human
dignity and self-worth it's about
bringing manufacturing jobs back to the
United States it's a reason brexit in
2016 are inextricably linked and we can
see when breaks it happened that that
gave the grassroots and the little guy
some sense of hope that you could to
defeat the system the second extension
you know and by the way we were told the
whole time to the elites the rise of
China and this is not about the Chinese
people this about the Chinese Communist
Party that the rise of China was the
second law of thermodynamics it was it
was physics that you couldn't change
nothing you could change and they were
just dead wrong
everything they said about that was
absolutely dead wrong the second
extinction-level event is the seven
trillion dollars we spent on these wars
in the Middle East
now I'm a foreign naval officer my
daughter is a West Point grad fought
with 101st airborne in Iraq you know I'm
as much of militarist as any right
winger but seven trillion dollars and
this is not Breitbart this is not been
and this is the Watson Center at Brown
University seven trillion dollars on two
wars that we didn't win and didn't
accomplish our objectives and was still
spending sixty two billion dollars a
year in Afghanistan and the third is the
financial crisis brought about by a
financial elite that's never been held
accountable I think of the 250 criminal
referrals from all the studies and all
the Commission's the Obama Justice
Department never moved on any of them
that is what caused the populace revolt
and look at what our solutions were
economic nationalism American first
national security policy in the
deconstruction of the administrative
state you have right-wing populism you
have left wing populism and the
difference and I wish our dear friends
out here understood fascism fascism is
the worship of the state fascism is that
combination of state crony capitalism
and big government it's exactly what
we're trying to fight it's where the
United States is going as an economic
system more and more concentration by
media companies by pharmaceutical
companies by industrial companies by
tech companies along with their partners
in big government so in Trump ran on
centrist rebasing stuff we're going to
stop massive illegal immigration and
limit legal immigration to get our
sovereignty back and more important to
protect our workers to protect the
Hispanic and African American working
class at the low end of the scale in the
Hispanic and african-american that
aspire into the tech industry along with
others at the high scale we're still
gonna have immigration but we're going
to limit it because economic nationalism
doesn't care about your color your
ethnicity your religion your gender your
sexual preference what it cares about is
that you're a citizen a citizen gets a
better deal remember the mantra on Wall
Street that I learned at Harvard
Business School the mantra that got us
into this situation is the maximization
of shareholder value that became a
fetish there are no other stakeholders
it's the maximization of shareholder
value economic nationalism is about the
maximization of citizenship value and
look at what Trump does at the beginning
what does he do he engages Moritz
immigration and trade trade and
immigration are two sides of the same
coin all bad trade deals is as unfair
competition of labor in lower cost
countries against your labor and what is
and what is Trump do immediately starts
the NAFTA deal wide because NAFTA is a
centerpiece in this economic war with
China you've got to bring back the
supply chain to the industrial
that's why Korea's doing a deal that's
why Japan's doing a deal and that's why
the EU is doing a deal because we're
shifting the supply chain high
value-added manufacturing jobs back to
the west
we're reindustrialize d industrialised
remember because of what the elites have
done in the financial system with this
over-leveraged and that an increase in
asset value it's made the Millennials as
made generation z it's made it's made
you essentially Russian serfs you know
you're better fed you're better clothes
you're in better shape you have more
access to information but you don't own
anything and you're not going to own
anything why do you think it's so
expensive in Silicon Valley in New York
and in London that is the flooding of
the zoner liquidity that is what's going
to make your generation poppers right
now the statistics are brutal and you're
a 20% behind people in their mid-20s
like 20% behind their parents generation
of where they are in the gaps only I get
increased as far as wages go and you
don't own any assets you're not going to
own any assets only what's passed down
nothing that you earn yourself you can't
save because it's 0
you can't own any assets you can't buy a
house the number one every study shows
the number one problem with family
formation in the United States and the
West in 20s and 30s it's economic
anxiety people don't feel that you have
a job they depend on I talk to audiences
all over the world of middle-class
people and they all understand something
there are two paychecks away from
oblivion
right they don't really have a stake in
the system they're two paychecks away
and when you turn 50 it gets even worse
so economic national is working the
compound annual growth rate of the
United States economy from the end of
World War two 1946 or 47 to 1999 what
China signed most favored nation came
into the WTO I think was three point two
five or three and a half percent through
ups and downs recessions but averaged
about three and a half percent
from that day forward until Trump raised
his hand the annual compound growth
though it was 1.8% now there were other
things that do with that - but centrally
is that investment in the West in the
industrialization process went to China
as we D industrialized it's one of the
reasons the the brexit vote was a Labour
vote in the Midlands of England that
push it over the top that's what nobody
that's what nobody polled
that's what nobody thought that the
Labour vote would push that over the top
the de-industrialized center of this
country that's what the entire Trump
programme is about bringing back high
they edit manufacturing jobs to combine
without technology companies the second
aspects of America first foreign policy
remember let's talk about this you
studied here all day long it's a fetish
the post-war international rules based
order okay what that is is from from
NATO in Europe to the Persian Gulf to
the South China Sea to the Northwest
Pacific it's a series of commercial
relationships capital markets trade
deals in an American security guarantee
it's a reason our defense budgets a
trillion dollars I know it says 780
billion but that's not the real cost the
real cost is a trillion dollars it's one
of the reasons we have a structural
deficit going forward now of a trillion
dollars and maybe these financial models
work out and maybe we start paying it
down and what Donald Trump is saying is
that we're not trying to disengage from
the world when there's going to be an
isolationist but what we've become with
this permanent local class turned us in
this party at Davos turned us into an
expeditionary humanitarian force that's
not the United States our founders
warned us that we're not an appeal power
we broke off from an imperial power
we're a revolutionary power we are not
looking for protectorates all Trump is
saying is that the economics and the
security or inertia could be linked to
trade deals and commercial relationships
have to work for everybody we're looking
for allies we don't want to protect her
in Western Europe that's what he keeps
harping on the two percent
you've got to throw something to the
till in the Persian Gulf that's what he
went to Riyadh the Arabic says you know
Trump such an Islamophobe the ban is
enough oh we went to Riyadh before
Jerusalem and before Rome to send a
message to the Islamic community we are
there for you and we're your allies and
we understand that there is a problem
the promise was radical Islamic Jihad is
as big a problem for you in your own
countries as it is for us in the West
and we have to party together to stop
that stop the financing of stop the
spread of it because it's killing you
worsens killing us
number two was Persian or Iranian
expansion that's what the discussions
were the third was about Islamic Islam
in the modern world and that's what
they're working on okay we said we're
there to help if you need any assistance
but we'll partner we're looking for
allies and there we had commitments of
people that want to be allies the same
in the South China Sea if war breaks out
war is going to break out in the South
China Sea or the Persian Gulf in the
South China Sea we're not looking for
protectorates as a young naval officer
that's where I was in the South China
Sea in the Persian Gulf
in the Arabian Sea and yes I was we were
hunting Soviet submarines those the
mission of our ships I don't need to be
lectured about what bad guys the
Russians are I know what bad guys the
Russians are I spent my 20s either on a
ship or at the Pentagon implementing at
a very junior level the war plan to
defeat them the same in the Northwest
Pacific with Korea in Japan what Trump
is saying very simply is we're looking
for allies we're not an isolationist
we're looking for allies not protector
not an imperial power and it's working
you're seeing in countries engaged look
at this week
that's the ACN conference engaged in the
South China Sea the littoral nations
look at the look at where we've done
with Korea look what we've dealt with
South Korea Japan's fully onboard in one
of the reasons he's engaged in the great
hegemonic war of the 21st century
against China against a totalitarian
mercantilist regime no when I did the
hundred seventy fifth year anniversary
of the economist and we got into in the
stage they said it's an illiberal no I
said it's not a liberal it's a
totalitarian regime with the with the
with a geopolitical expansionist
attitude of McKenna and Mahon and
Speakman and all of it it's the British
East India Company in the Maldives and
Indian Ocean in sub-saharan Africa right
rapacious predatory capitalism that is
America first foreign policy is to work
with people and to try to work with
people to say hey in NATO we've been
saying for a long time is it really the
Russians look we understand the Russians
are bad guys but when the Germans that
people won't put in two percent is it
really the Russians of the threat or
it's a threat what's happening in
sub-saharan Africa because we have not
been engaged down there in the implosion
of those societies people make a logical
decision I got to get out of here and
where I'm going to go as a north that
has to be solved nobody argues about
this biblical tragedy of this migrant
the migrant crisis I was the one go back
and read the books reading the ports i
sat there and the answer the Curry's
kind of said we gotta get we got a
drawdown in Afghanistan right we can't
force our culture America's not an idea
America is a country with borders and
citizens in a history and we can't
impose that on people and this neocon
idea of spreading this throughout the
world people either want to accept it
and they go through their own struggles
and they accept it in their own way
but I said the time the lies are told
Cyclery 30 Bain das weighs 60 billion
dollars and we should spend that money
in Central America in the northern
triangle countries and in Mexico so
because we don't need to go to Central
Asia to see failed States we've got them
on our borders and just like the migrant
issue drove salvini
others of power the reason is the
working class in Italy in its social
where fills a referral system can't take
the burden of the mistakes they've been
made in sub-saharan Africa our China's
rapacious East India policy just like
the working class in text
in New Mexico in Arizona principally
Hispanic working-class can't bear the
burden of economic migration unless
saying it doesn't have to be solved it
can't be solved in their backs it has to
be solved in those countries has to be
solved by engagement but the United
States can't spray itself all over the
world the reason the deplorable are
angry and they're angry is they're
rational human beings okay they
understand it spun their shoulders at
all rest right why do we have why do we
have such vibrant robust capital markets
people say what's the liquidity let's
say west of the port he said what
everybody wants to invest it we know
people want put their money in real
estate they want to put their money in
stocks because the understanding United
States is safe they don't care if they
get a return they just over the nice
things I said why is that and when you
go down to the bomb is because it's a
civic society of the cop the fireman the
teacher the nurse the little guy it's
upon their shoulders it all rests and
it's their kids in the Hindu Kush it's
their kids in the Persian Gulf it's
their kids in the South China Sea it's
their kids on the 38th parallel well the
ten thousands are dead it's their
children of the forty thousand one day
it's their children they get dissed and
dismissed and haven't had a wage
increase in thirty five years average
net worth of thinking and I say should
we take out a house which is the
ephemeral equity in your house I think
it's like ten thousand dollars of cash
in the bank that's not what our founders
had in mind it's not sustainable
I tell the donors I said look right-wing
populist indifferent bright women
popular from power
we believe in the deconstruction
administrative state I'm not a
libertarian I'm not an anarchist okay I
believe in government I served in the
military but we have to deconstruct this
Leviathan that the progressives have
built that is immutable to up to two
elections and that's what the Trump
administration is do has not
deregulation it's much deeper than that
the left-wing their solution is more
intervention in the state whether it's
Jeremy Corbyn or Bernie Sanders or miss
Cortez are all of them it's more
intervention that's the difference in
populism on the spectrum and yet our
friends out here and here say O'Bannon
is a fascist you know it's interesting
I'm the only person the only person that
went to salvini after he won and said
make a deal with DeMaio make a deal with
the five star movement the five star
movement on the left but they believe in
stopping crony capitalism their
anti-corruption and you saw the murders
that's why Italy is so important that's
why Italy so the focus in the petri dish
again this work look at first off the
ECB tried to stop a government taking
place in ten years they didn't want the
people to speak the people at least
stood up and said no we are going to
have we're gonna select the leader and
the courage of salvini and DeMaio to say
it doesn't have to be us we'll take
responsibility for what we said we would
do shows you the power when populism and
nationalism comes together and look at
this budget was the budget budgets a
compromise
people say we're so divided they
compromise don't really take on the
pension plan have some of the guaranteed
income of the five star movement cuz I'm
a five star movement has left and yet
you have it in the right they have they
want a flat tax that they're more Rand
Paul than Rand Paul it's a perfect
combination will it work I have no idea
is it a noble experiment yes it is and
look who's against them every day
it's the ECB's the EU the last thing
they want is that experiment they're
gonna try to bleed him out now you watch
what happens the next couple years when
they put that budget up they said
although the Italian people in very
austere the Italian people living today
didn't really create that debt that was
all created twenty years ago by the
geniuses that ran the country at the
time with the European Union in the
European Central Bank
but as salvini and DeMaio and yes that
was in BBC in Scotland the other day and
they sit there for an hour and they
drill me on every coat of or bond and
salvini and these guys are racist these
guys are this these these guys are
patriots they are trying to save their
countries it's tough work and sometimes
they get a little hot I'm not there to
defend every statement that somebody
makes I can't defend every statement
Donald Trump makes that game is offend
every statement Steve Bannon makes
but it's a process let's talk about this
process everybody out here they're there
they're doing the thing and in the
streets everybody in the United States
all the country's so divided its
countries so divided our country it's
not divided we just had an election
that's bigger than most presidential
elections I think a hundred and fourteen
million people voted you know whether it
happened the progressive left I said
this for I've said this for first eight
months nine months is beginning a
progressive left understands and that's
the times up movement the resistance the
Tom Styer the Netroots nation they
understand something the Republicans
establish a doesn't they understand
Donald Trump's a transformative
president and they understand he's a
stork figure thank you two more minutes
the signal not the noise they understand
that he's going to be in their life ten
and twenty and thirty years from now and
it's just not federal judges its
deconstruction administrate it's more of
his policies that's why they did the
hard work and I gave my hat tip all the
time I said they have the urgency and
the energy of the Tea Party movement in
a digital age Obama and Trump showed us
the most important thing in politics is
not a 30-second spot we've just
announced yes in the United States spent
5.2 billion dollars on the midterm
elections and they're still the most
important thing is somebody bringing a
doorbell registering you to vote give
you additional information later and
coming back and getting you to vote the
left did that the reason they took over
the House of Representatives and now
they have a weapon to stop Trump and
they know that is that the I'll work
just there's like the tea party in 2010
I disagree with them ideologically on
everything I admire their grit because
they won the old-fashioned way and
that's healthy for our country right but
you saw Briggs it and you saw in Trump
the establishes a second sit that you
win win elections gonna pat you on the
head and say here the keys what a great
idea you guys great ideas look at breaks
a day when Prime Minister made came to
the Oval Office I think was a march to
the cabin room for the lunch Trump told
her three things over
your target on your deal because it'll
back off get on with it get a deal in
six months because times not your friend
and then what she laughed about in the
summer she says oh yeah and he said to
sue him he didn't say to sue him he was
saying use every error in the quiver
because the aegis is not gonna sit there
and go what a great idea
a bunch of working-class people and
people in the Midlands want to get out
of the EU here you go just take off and
you see what's happened they have no
intention of letting you guys go none
zero zero they've made it as hard as
possible they will continue to make it
hard as possible because your experiment
can't work I get criticized this
movement the thing I'm involved in now
because people have come to me about the
European parliamentary elections because
that's how I made my chops here in 14
watching a guy named Nigel frog wander
around England I said man these are
really important elections why is nobody
out here and why is it on page 5 of The
Times they said oh it's European
Parliament nobody cares they're gonna
care next May because next May in Donald
Tusk so politely says it that the brown
shirts of the populist nationalist
movement are gonna be against the EU
good guys like McCrone by the way before
I wrap up McCrone is a nationalist he's
a nationalist but the capital of his
nation is not in Paris it's in Brussels
right read his speech in 2017 he wants a
United States of Europe even more
commercial integration more capital
markets integration more political
integration more military integration
its Brussels is his capital and that's
not me saying it the day after he
insults President Trump to his face for
the second time because he did in
Congress to first his for his Finance
Minister comes up and says hey we the EU
should be an empire his words not mine
like China in the United States that's
what the EU wants and last thing for
open questions as I've gone around on
the movement now and met all the leaders
in Europe not one has ever mentioned
destroying the EU
what they want is a reformed EU they
want a confederation of individual
nation states that are governed by the
citizens of those nation states and not
be a United States of Europe they don't
want Italy to be Georgia to Frances
South Carolina that's a lot more to go
through but maybe we'll get to any
questions thank you so much
I want to begin by asking about the
unite the right rally which took
patients Charlotte's feel about last
August you commented that the criticisms
of the Confederate statues it of
American historical figures played into
Trump's political narrative by dividing
people on racial lines and playing
identity politics and you support well
this is sort of you said in response to
Donald Trump saying though they were
very fine people on both sides I never
said that you said that you thought that
as long as the Democrats talked about
Jefferson as long as they talk for the
Confederacy it was a win for Republicans
and you would crush it no here's the
point and I think this has been
misinterpreted what President Trump said
I come from the Commonwealth of Virginia
the debate over the the the Confederate
monuments in the generals in southern
history right is being worked out in the
polls is being worked out in the process
of Virginians voting on that debating
that this current Senate campaign Corey
Stewart took a very hard line on and
lost it got blown out that's the point
is there are very good people on both
sides of that what Trump said and I've
said the people that come to those
rallies I am on record from day one the
neo Confederates the neo-nazis the the
the KKK have no place in our society I
don't think and they shouldn't be
allowed to come to Charlottesville and
demonstrate it should be shut down so
you don't have to put up with these poor
police officers had to do tonight but
antifa and elements of the black lives
matter should be shut down also the
problem we've got is that the left only
puts the camera on the right and these
people are margins as no national and
stuff is ridiculous is stupid on the
face of it it's ridiculous I've said it
from day one
Ethel nationalism is a dead end it's for
losers economic nationalism and civic
nationalisms binds you together as
citizens regardless of your race
regardless of your ethnicity regardless
of your religion that's what we stand
for they're so afraid of it that's why I
said once they run they will not debate
you on the economic arguments they got
to call you a racist
a homophobe anti-semite a nativist a
xenophobe all of it
and when they start calling you that
where the accusations as a badge of
honor by the way don't say one thing
I've got thousands of hours of radio
interviews I brand radio shows forever
had my own radio show thousands of hours
of speeches like this you don't think
those guys went through every line of
speech every radio show everything
they've never come up with an
anti-semitic or racist comment ever it's
in this shows you the opposition party
media held dumb inlays they are and
here's why we're winning we're winning
on the economics why do I come to groups
like this water-ice I only speak to
mainstream media I don't go on Fox I
don't go on right-wing media why because
for our movement to be successful we
must take 25% of the Bernie guys the
economic nationalists 1/3 to 40% of
African American working class and
middle class in 1/3 of 40% of Hispanic
working class in middle class and Asian
middle class and working class when we
unite that and we will unite it in the
United States because it's my life's
work we will have a political
realignment like 1932 and we will govern
the country for working men and women in
our country not for the elites on Wall
Street not for the elites in corporate
America and not for the party of Davos I
appreciate that you've drawn a
distinction that very clearly between
ethnic nationalism acidic nationalism
and the binding power but do you worry
that it's difficult for some like
President Trump to say they're merely
acidic nationalists with rhetoric about
immigrants being rapists and terrorists
particularly in light of the
demonization of the migrants and
refugees in what he calls the george
soros funded caravan and i why that
these anti-semitic conspiracy theories
in fact taint the economic or civic
message that you purport like the party
of Davos the economic managerial
scientific engineering cultural elite
right the World Economic Forum in its
spawns know the mindset it's not it's
not the Jesuits it's not the Freemasons
it's not the Illuminati it's not the
Vatican it's not the protocols of the
Elders of Zion it's in your face there's
no conspiracy it's the way the system
works have you ever heard Obama
criticized once for just flooding the
zone
and bailing out all the Wall Street guys
read all the books read Geithner's book
read at all have you ever heard one time
the most progressive prison in history
ever quash a question about that no it's
in your face
yes it's Trump sometimes you know this
is why I'm saying it's the signal versus
the noise and sometimes the noise is a
flashbang grenade okay I understand that
he wouldn't be president if it wasn't
for that he wouldn't be President not
for that language but for going over the
media's head with Twitter and talking in
a plain spoken vernacular to a
working-class audience he's the first
guy to give the working class in our
country the idea that they had somebody
in the room not in the room not in the
deal with Trump they're a deal that why
do you think it just didn't happen
magically and don't buy this as Obama's
thing Obama told us the new normals 1.8
percent growth okay
this three and a half percent growth and
I'm not totally in love with the tax cut
I'm the progressive read The Wall Street
Journal I'm in the Oval Office arguing
for forty four percent tax rate and
everybody over five million dollars and
I got shot down by two progressive
Democrats from Goldman Sachs Trump's the
first guy to have it be in the room for
the working class that's what we have
historic low black unemployment that's
why we have twenty five year low
Hispanic unemployment that's why wages
in agriculture and construction right
oil field services at the lowest levels
are starting to rise for the first time
and we're a long way from success it's a
process but it's a start and we're
bringing manufacturing jobs back and
around high value-added manufacturing
jobs you can you can build a family
around that you can have family
formation you can have some stability
that's what the purpose of this is
that's what the populist movement is the
populist movement is subsidiarity it's
to get more power down to the little guy
because you know why if I had a choice
between being governed by the first
hundred people that showed up at a trump
rally or you kippur the bracelet rallies
in the Trump rally the red hats or the
top hundred partners of Goldman Sachs
where I was honored to work I take them
I take the I take the deployables every
day they have more humanity more grit
they know more about life more decency
more common goodness
okay the world would be fine if they ran
it and right and do you not worry that
it patronizes the decency of those
common people to make comments about
Mexicans being rapists we're gonna do
this now for a third are you BB said
let's do this all night okay this is
what we do every night
yes his language sometimes sometimes he
speaks it's a little hot but it's your
own language you said we should unchain
the dogs and megyn kelly
someone who is herself a Republican
unchain the dogs yes yes I did say that
I'm proud of that and how can you
justify using that sort of violent
language in a peaceful democratic
political price oh no I think it I think
in that regard I think you can get very
heated I think I think politics and
that's why I said the left this time if
you look at the anger on the left and
what they did and what they did and
getting this vote out and the heated
rhetoric against Trump I think it's
perfectly acceptable
I don't think violence is acceptable
what megyn kelly did is tried to take
out Donald Trump in the very first
debate she tried to kneecap e and we
were into the people at Fox came and try
to shut us down I get calls from they
had a fox a guard mom Roger Ailes said
you got to stop this so we're not gonna
stop this she went through his Twitter
feed in his in his his Facebook pages
for you know 14 years and came up with a
couple examples and tried to take him
out in the very first debate I said this
populist movements not gonna die right
here right and we will unchain the dogs
and we unchained the dogs right we had
article after our what happened what
were the dogs articles articles articles
about how she had gone to Twitter how
she'd go into Facebook and Trump wrote
it out right so no I am NOT I'm not I'm
proud of that and I want to look at that
the expansion you know politics is war
by other methods right it shouldn't get
violent there's stuff out here tonight
the people are there most at risk of the
police officers right or coming through
here like it was in Toronto that debate
it was the audience that they were
jumping on the violence is never is
never that but he did heated debate and
I think news sites I think we're fine I
think he's we're big boys and girls the
left just didn't look at the urgency
look at the hatred Donald Trump they had
to win that election to get you know how
tough it is get somebody to walk a
precinct in Iowa in July in 90-degree
heat and humidity what they did it and
they beat the sitting congressmen but I
think 10 points you know why they ring
every doorbell I admire that and that
takes anger you're not doing that for
sunlit up
I wanted the nos button the expansion of
that populist movement to Europe with
your sort of flagship efforts under
under the movement obviously spoken
alongside marine lepen but recently
marine lepen de Mateos IV me have both
said that as an American it's not your
place to shake the European right and
response these parliamentary elections
how would you respond to that sort of
increasing distance between it's not
increasing distance it's absolutely
correct remember the whole reason the
movement started I started getting
invited over here to talk to the Swiss
People's Party in front Nationale and
you know all throughout Europe the first
thing I asked I said tell me what you
want me to talk about you know some
Schmendrick from the United States and
they said the first thing what we want
the speech is make sure you tell us
we're not alone I said what'd he mean
I'm not alone I said the populist
movement in nationalist movement in in
Europe is 18 months to two years ahead
of wait brexit happened you know BRICS
had happened before 2016 and they said
no but we really don't get together we
don't really talk etcetera and so some
people came to me the movement already
existed it was a Jewish individual and
his colleagues in Belgium that came to
me and said hey we want an inner
connective tissue the politician is a
populist nationalist in Europe don't
need Steve Bannon I'm not some big
goober I've never made a penny in
politics in my life I'm a volunteer I
got it I've got it I've got an NGO I've
got a not-for-profit now right to foot
forward populist ideas and nationals
again they don't need me they absolutely
don't need they run they run there they
run there they run their party's fine
right there unfortunate I catch a plane
but just give me ten minutes okay there
we have to take a few more questions
yeah let me take a couple from the
audience so no all we're doing is
indicated we're going to do conferences
we're gonna you know do white papers
things like that but salvini in lepen
who are both in they don't need me to
tell them what to do they're gonna
select their own candidates run their
own campaigns right hopefully and by the
way if it turns out it's legal and I'm
still trying to find out we are doing
the most systematic polling that's ever
been done for the European parliamentary
elections next May the intensity in
these elections which used to be on page
5 in 2014 in The Times is going to be on
page 1 by March and April it will have
the intensity of an American
presidential election
very proud of being one of the people
helping to raise the awareness and then
let everybody come out and vote about I
have no problem with losing I hate to
lose
I don't problem with losing on November
6 you know why because we've got beaten
by people that went out and did the hard
work of how you win in politics okay and
I keep telling my colleagues on the
right if we're gonna win in 2020 we have
to replicate their urgency we have to
replicate their intensity right to do
that let's take as an audience questions
now let's first get to the woman on the
front row in the coat thank you I'm very
interested in the role that war plays in
your nationalism because you said very
rightly that you want to rally people
around your judeo-christian values and
not ethnicity if you do that you need
another other and that for you would be
Islam so will there be a war with other
Islamic countries because they're not
embracing judeo-christian values no I do
I do in Europe in the United States it's
to unite the judeo-christian West but
it's not against it's not against
Islamic countries remember we went to
Riyadh first before Jerusalem before
Rome for a reason and we had all the
Sunni countries some of the Shiites
didn't come which I hope gets taken care
of but that was to say what do we need
to do to help you guys unite what do we
need to do to help you a society what do
we need to do to stop the scourge of
radical Islamic terrorism go back and
read Trump's Riyadh speech and look at
the actions that we've taken since then
to try to unite people now that is it
all work out is it a perfect world this
answer is not a perfect world you know
NBS at the time was looked at as a
reformer NBS at the time was looked at
as someone that understood in Saudi
Arabia you know vision 2030 he
understands that Saudi Arabia's got a
massive financial problem going forward
and he was a reformer in both regards
will that work out or not I don't know
but President Trump in the United States
his has gotten more engaged in the Gulf
and with Egypt okay look remember in
2014 one of the things in Trump's an art
alert rush remember the quote we will
unite old allies and form new ones new
alliances in unite the civilized world
to wipe radical Islamic Jihad for
the face of the earth and I told me at
the time when he wrote those lines and
said that's a big cheque you're gonna
have to cash Isis in 2014 Isis had eight
million people under slavery Isis had
tax revenues in all fields Isis he
physically destroyed the physical
Caliphate of Isis in one year in
alliance with Islamic countries so no
it's not it's not has nothing to
populism when you go see people it's not
about having another it's about being a
citizen
it's about being a citizen that is the
basic unit and it is not about
demonizing others great let's say thank
you let's go to the member from New York
Allah Jin the great jumper thank you for
speaking us to it today just Jessie I
ask it from the heart don't don't worry
do don't read your notes just ask it
from the heart because what you say and
what you do doesn't seem to align you
support these ideas of an elite that's
out to get you and the bankers that need
to be held accountable which is very
similar to the kind of things that
Bernie Sanders believes but you chose
instead to support a man mr. Trump who
instead retracted the dodd-frank act and
completely deregulated the banks yet
again which contributes to the ideas
that you're that you're saying that he
was going against so as well as that you
have this newspaper Breitbart which
you're you know it's a little website
that you had sorry yeah which was out
you know you're promoting these lies and
what lies I can go through them again
that if you want you told me gimme gimme
gimme gimme two
all right so from memory so far
murmuring you claimed that Loretta
license was a member was going to be
considered for the Attorney General and
that she was a member of Bill Clinton's
defense team and you then can issue the
correction where you said sorry actually
we got the wrong Loretta license right
that's a bit of a disaster we didn't
choose to take away the story so clearly
you don't care about the truth as much
as you care about money
please don't please I don't have time I
don't have time Caesar so you'd like to
respond to the question about dodd-frank
it yeah okay let's go so the world is
not perfect right
is that a revelation
I know in Oxford it seems like it no
listen wait how do we win when I stepped
in look I'm a populist I've been
fighting Breitbart remember Breitbart
90% of our time was fighting the
Republican establishment after we won
with Trump I've had so many progressives
big donors of Bernie Sanders come to me
and say hey could you switch sides
because we need fighters and number two
could you start a Breitbart on the left
because we need a Breitbart on the Left
who take on the Democratic establishment
the Clintons
that's what primary Breitbart job was
90% of our stuff is going after the
Republican establishment when I stepped
into the campaign so far behind you have
to film an alliance I had to reach out
to the Republican establishment in the
White House every day the tax bill is
not perfect what we did a financial
deregulation is not perfect I disagree
with it I'm one voice and have other
people with me fighting for these
nationalist movements and you have to
prioritize some time to me it's more
important to get the trade stuff right
and you read in the paper every day
we're still fighting that right in the
immigration stuff correct so that where
we're taking care of our workers and yes
I'm not happy with where we were in Bank
deregulation although I do believe in
deregulating that the state I think a
lot of what dodd-frank did was correct
and I think there should be more I'm the
one it's advocated criminal prosecutions
to go back and they say oh the the the
you know the statue of limits or and I
said well they will charge them with
something hold people accountable so is
it perfect no but the populist movement
is building momentum every day one of
the reasons I slept and started this c4
is to generate ideas in policy so my
actions have been absolutely 100 percent
on top of the word some of the words
she's not going to like some of the
words you're not going to like I believe
I'm the one that went through it did the
the original travel ban with Stephen
Miller upheld by the Supreme Court made
our country safer made Islamic citizens
in our country safer start to get to the
issue of the student visas
to make us safer okay even talk to the
UN High Refugee through general Kelly
who don't do a vetting system said
you're vetting system now is getting
better you actually we think it may be
the best in the world outside of Israel
okay so in bother I know you don't like
the border the zero tolerance at the
border it's a humanitarian program okay
if you haven't taken that journey if you
have economic migration into the United
States is called immigration you have to
get in line and go through the
immigration process they're just not a
thing of called immigration Omikron
you have political asylum and you have
immigration but to entice people look at
the caravan read the New York Times to
watch a post of the interviews and the
people in the caravan they are up front
they go we understand we're not eligible
for political asylum we're gonna get to
the border make a dash for it the burden
of that goes on the Hispanic and black
working class and those in those cities
in it's in the southern states and it is
also destroying the social welfare
Network net we have and that just now
follow yes at the point yes you say that
you believe these things but the people
that you allow yourselves with yourself
with and you give me an example
obviously these are all just dog
whistles who are like the people who
sort of did you ask who I mean or bond
salvini it salvini that's I'm saying
that these people and you do this thing
where you say okay well you know the
racists and the anti should be they
agree with me but I didn't specifically
say that word I don't think quote means
we please please please therefore please
listen please listen and write this down
thank I I support or bond and I support
salvini
100% all this thing always deflect he's
deflecting 100% do I agree with
everything everybody says all the time
no including myself
I just don't okay but I agree with what
they're trying to accomplish and there's
no dog whistles to those individuals the
left in the right both have fringes you
saw it out there tonight the left and
the right both have fringes that are
radical and they're violent
okay I have been at the forefront and
saying that has to be shut down what do
you think I come through this thing
tonight
the thing you think I'd do that for my
health I do it to set an example that we
can't let that win once you let that win
at all it will all fall apart okay so my
words and my deeds are one of the same
and I'm sorry if you don't like the
deeds but I can sleep I can live with it
I can look myself in the mirror and
understand the logic and back of it and
why we're doing it and I see our country
today under Trump and I see the changes
have been made and I see the opposition
and how triggered they are by those
actions and I understand that's where
they're working so hard and I admire
that my goal is to defeat them at the
ballot box let's take one more and break
partner anymore thank you for your great
let's take one more question from the
audience no no can we take a couple
we're gonna miss our flight but
right let's go to the gentleman the
front row here so you might have seen in
your way in there's a rather large
protest outside about I think yes
there's a bunch of people out there who
are calling you a fascist and white
supremacist and quite appalled that
you're here appearing in in Oxford but
these guys aren't the opposition party
media I mean they're their students
right and so I mean what what's your
then they're not the elite that you're
talking about are they so so what's your
what's a response to students well
that's why that's why I come to
locations like this and speak that's why
I go on MSNBC and speak that's why I say
hey you're just going to have to come to
your own decision you know for a guy's
such a fascist isn't it interesting
I'm the guy that talked to salvini right
after they won and said I know you even
get a lot of pressure to do this on your
own with Berlusconi's other guys but one
thing I think you should consider is
this left-wing party of anti crony
capitalists okay
maybe somebody you want to think about
doing a deal with and eventually and it
wasn't me nonetheless some genius they
eventually worked it out in three
later they had a deal right how fastest
is that the other thing is remember
fascism is is worshiping the state state
capitalism combined with big government
is fascism it's what Mussolini had is
what Hitler had it is a is what China
has today it is the scariest system of
world could you take all the worst
elements of capitalism and you combine
it with the worst elements of
authoritarian government and you've got
problems that is why the third leg I
said at a CPAC the third leg of the
Trump still is the deconstruction of the
administrative state I'm a nationalist I
don't worship the nation I'm in
nationalist cuz I think that that that
is the unit since the Treaty of
Westphalia that served as best and that
citizens have the most control and the
most ability to control so yes I'm a
populist because I believe in the little
nganimate I'll eat I'm a nationalist
because I believe in the nation state
but fascism is the worship of the state
and you want more consolidation of power
I want deconstruction I'm the guy keeps
saying Facebook should be broken up
Google should be broken up we should
take the data and drop it down to a
public trust I've said that for over a
year so my point is the mainstream media
wants a position the same way and the
reason is is that the elite and the
corporatist elite do not want change and
they have to defeat populism and
nationalism by smearing it with racism
nativism in xenophobia but it won't work
because the more that the programs are
successful we march forward right and
we're attracting people there 25% of
Bernie's people that we're gonna get I
know this these people come to me the
economic nationalists there's a third of
40 percent of the african-american 1.6
million african-americans have voted for
Barack Obama did not vote for Hillary
Clinton they're not prepared to vote for
Donald Trump yet but they're prepared to
sit back and say hey let me see what
this guy saying let me see his actions
and how it affects my life and my
family's life right okay and one quick
follow-up on that did that answer it
people that charge of that wait okay
what was that
hang on be fair-haired what was not what
did not get answered I I was I was
hoping you should do Teutonic as you
went back sort of they say this is the
mainstream media right who are sort of
giving me smears about you being a
racist or a fascist but the people
outside they're not the mainstream media
they're their 20 year old students you
know that I mean what what's yours well
I think they get to I'm saying I think
where they get their information I think
is they get more information the reason
I come here is hopefully this permeates
out of what the program is and it's good
it's not gonna happen overnight
I understand that that's why I go speak
that's right go on MSM see that's how I
go to BBC it's not this is not miniscus
I'm dedicated to this movement and I've
dedicated my life to this movement but
it's not something it's not something I
would sit and go you know what I'd love
to do is I'd love to go to Oxford in the
middle of November and hang out with a
bunch of students your hair in Europe at
the moment you've been you've been
speaking about Sylvania and and the
lighting you said that you'd there's
this growing populist movement but um I
mean as as Steven said recently you know
the the salvini and and Lipan have given
a joint press conference they said
you're not a you're not a European
you're an American you know pretty and
distance himself from you and you know
politicians in this country that you
said you've spoken to an influence of
distance themselves like Michael Gove
said you had one chat with you maybe at
dinner party or something and I mean
you've recently given a talk to I think
it was a roomful of about 38 people in
New York so you're irrelevant these days
aren't you it's a good question
first off after that after salvini and
lepen said that go back and look at
their other public statements right
therefore they don't need and I've never
offered up to be some great American
strategist is going to come in to change
Europe I'm not the movement is just a
place to have conferences to pull people
together and exchange ideas if it turns
out it's legal by European election law
by country the the the polling that
we're doing and the other things that
we're doing right now at the movement
will be available to everybody if it's
not then it won't be these people gonna
run their own countries but it's
interesting I had three people from
front Nationale came and spent the
weekend and we're actually on the TV
livestream that we did for the campaign
right now which I'll be flying back to
United State
I have people from Salvi knees
government there that I'm meeting with
or coming I actually came over to see me
okay I spent yesterday in Paris all day
in meetings with different political
parties okay I am NOT the Savior here I
am NOT some big guru okay
I'm one guy that's a populous and people
you know I think they feel that there is
some need to have conferences and to
pull together okay let's talk about the
irrelevance II the Tea Party won a
massive victory in 2010 one of the ways
we did is I made these films that would
go around at showman room with 500
people but I'd also go to leaders in
Staten Island and in it we had huge
crowds everywhere but I would do
multiple events um with crowds and some
with Tea Party leaders in Kansas where I
did a Holiday Inn Express they said
there was only 30 people there
those were Tea Party leaders in a
district we had to win I was there to
tell these people you've got to get out
the left is all over this district
they're bringing every door but you must
support the Trump program we won that
district the reason I was in Staten
Island with those 40 people there Tea
Party leaders we had a very bitter
primary and I said if the Trump people
do not get him back of this RINO
he's a rhino we're gonna lose Staten
Island for the first time they lost that
Nylund by six points so look my
relevancy are not relevancy I'll be
judged by you know my actions and my
results I should let you know for nine
years I had labored in the vineyard
until I was tapped to take over Trump's
campaign but all that hard work and
everything that was done and going
around to grassroots and building up
relationships within working-class
communities it paid off in the Trump
campaign that hasn't gone away it's
still there's one the reason I left the
Trump White House I'm just not up to be
a staffer I appreciate the I appreciate
the Tory question second question here
from the man on the second rare in the
wastegate
I thank you for coming I have actually
been campaigning and supporting your
right to speak here because I believe in
your right to freedom of speech even
though I disagree with many of your
ideas my friend here
asked the question that I was going to
ask but I have another question
considering the progressive strides that
the Democrats have made in the midterm
elections just recently do you think
Trump has a chance of winning again in
2020 and do you think the country will
be even more divided by then or do you
think that Democrats will finally find a
candidate that represents here's here's
I think that's a great question here's
nothing it's gonna play out I advocate
it early on that if you lose the house
it's a different deal because the house
has the appropriations process it has
the Ways and Means but more importantly
can investigate and it will try to
forget the Moller report and what
they'll do for impeachment Jerry Nadler
already said they're gonna have 52
investigations they are gonna try to
field-strip Donald Trump not just his
administration his entire business his
tax returns all of it okay and you've
seen how the initial response has been
by President Trump by no president from
pretty well and I kept arguing focus on
the house focus on the house a couple
out of the seats in the Senate are nice
but they're marginal focus on the house
that didn't happen and we and we lost
because we got beat and it's gonna be
bad but I think in 2020 my perception
I've said this because I think Hillary
Clinton's gonna be in I think a lot of
people are gonna be in on the left oh
yeah she's running already don't say
that watch the Rachel Maddow and watch
the Atlantic ideas she's already laid
out her theory of the case against Trump
remember in her perspective she should
she did win over 3,000,000 netting out
the illegal immigrant votes she a joke D
no but she's gonna say hey Kristin
Gillibrand Cory Booker you know
Elizabeth Warren bring it you know I'm
the champ you got to knock out the champ
to be the champion but here's what I
think is gonna happen they're gonna
force Trump to the right with the
investigations in the consolidation of
his base in the back off of the
Republican Party gonna say hey I saw the
married Republican women run for the
exits right in these midterms the left
is gonna be pulled to the left because
the left is going to demand one of the
things that resistance is going to say
hey we delivered that vote we're the
ones that getting Trump's head on a pike
we are the driving force the time's up
movement the resistance Tom Steyer
they're gonna say this is ours
in the primaries you're gonna see I
don't know if it's a Roark or somebody
and the value of her work is like
Lincoln
he lost the Senate race but then won the
presidency because he stuck to his
principles or or quite admire ran as a
fire-breathing progressive in the state
of Texas and I told the Cruz guys if you
don't beat him by six points or more
he'll run for president but here's what
I think is gonna happen Bloomberg he's
going to put a hundred million dollars
at least in back of a third party a
unity party to say just what you say the
country's divided so this hot talking
Ben is saying unchain the dogs Trump
saying storied Anna's as a horse face
the left is crazy they want you know a
medicare-for-all for 30 trillion dollars
we have to have reasonable people like
Mitt Romney and Joe Biden or picket
right they'll form some sort of Unity
Party I think we'll have a three-way
race it's succinctly thank you thank you
I had a father let's go next to the
woman on the front row Justin Upton
can I just tell my guys hey we're gonna
miss that flight we'll just we'll have
to figure it out know what you people
did to put this on and come here I can't
scoot out I was wondering if you think
that democracy is the best way for
governments to run and if so how you
feel about your role in the dissolution
of Western democracy if you'd like me to
like elaborate to how I got there I can
do that yeah give me a give me an
example the solutions so when political
trust is low social trust is low and
democratic institutions get dissolved
because people don't believe that
they're politicians or their judiciary
or Congress can be trusted to represent
them and I think and a lot of other
people would think maybe that your work
with Breitbart in the Europe with the
Trump campaign has contributed to a
serious crisis
of political trust okay perfect we just
had 114 million people vote we had the
biggest we had that we had a midterm
that was like a presidential race
democracy has never been better never
been more robust and vibrant in the
United States people are more engaged
the people in the left and the right
were walking they were canvassing in
July in June and July knocking on doors
it just so happens that the left did it
better and smarter more urgency our
democracy do we disagree on stuff yes I
disagree totally with their ideology I
admire their work and I keep saying hey
you want to win victory baguettes
victory beat us at the ballot box and
hey guess what they did I'm good with
that our democracy is very robust these
are intense debates democracy nobody
covered the Italian election why did I
tell salvini was the first thing I've
told Sylvania I think you ought to think
about putting some of the five-star
because I went down and followed the two
campaigns I wandered around they were
done a basically Facebook Facebook live
I watched the five star I watched thing
and here's what you saw young people
engaged in a campaign talking about the
most important issues in politics
what's the values citizenship what does
it mean about a central government what
is a nation-state these huge issues
nobody was covering it the democracy in
is is robust in Italy the Italian said
you can't put another guy from the ECB
to run our country they try to do that
so how could you possibly say one but I
understand the left is losing elections
that or Bonn wins
what 66 or so these guys win and you're
losing all sudden democracy doesn't look
so good democracy is the best
alternative we got right I want I want
more people voting you know all this
voter suppression I want to go away
because working-class African Americans
are going to be one of the core planks
of our of our movement high
participation in elections is not the
minimum requirement for democracy give
me that again a high participation
election is not the only qualification
for democracy and I would argue that I
didn't go to graduate school in
political science I'm just a simple guy
you've already lost me I'm a simple guy
if people are participating democracy if
voting if they're if they're getting out
in canvassing if they're if they're the
American political culture Trump has
permeated everything and he's triggered
the left because they understand he he's
going to be in their lives 20 years now
unless they get rid of him and they're
gonna get rid of him they want to get
rid of him in the house of and the House
of Representatives I dig that I don't
like it I tried to fight it but I get it
and they and guess what they pulled it
off more power to them how is that not
democracy some of your theoretical did I
just don't get it
people are more people are more engaged
in everything people are voting for
candidates who position themselves as
outsiders that are going to further
dissolve democratic institutions by
draining the swamp and cleaning up
politics also there are cases of
authoritarian governments where you have
to vote so that has huge voter turnout
but it's not a democracy I don't think
we have that problem in the West I don't
think it was fortunate it's just an
example I was giving okay I'm sorry for
mansplaining but you you you've got me
worked up I'm sorry for man explained
but you got me worked up no I just kind
of say so I just think that I think even
for your generation I think you're
seeing now more engagement look look at
our works campaign I think you're seeing
more engagement by people maybe it took
Trump to engage both the working class
and in this young generation of social
justice warriors in the political
process I think that's great thank you
thank you to the gentleman in the blue
jump over the yellow lanyard on him yeah
all right in the spirit of free speech I
think you're delusional if you think
that the high growth and unemployment is
is Trump's doing and I don't think that
Donald Trump is this is Obama's this
Obama's economy this Donald Trump came
in and and and he didn't do anything
magical and there's hi there's the oh hi
hi Cass unemployment great reasonable
men can disagree on this sorry
reasonable men can disagree on this I
just think you're dead wrong and you
think I'm dead wrong but okay what my
okay even his enemies on Wall Street
don't don't even his enemies on Wall
Street don't agree with you yeah but
then he was on another note I want to
say a lot of things so I'm gonna try to
like keep it I'm gonna go with one
question I promise you made a lot of
very good points in terms of like what
the problems are you elicited a lot of
the problems in the United States and in
the world today but you really failed to
explain how does what the Donald Trump
doing the last two years that alleviate
any of these problems were to fix any of
these problems so I think I think is I
think the beginning was the NAFTA
renegotiation on trade deals in the tax
deal which by the way is far from
perfect but the centerpiece of the tax
deal was the corporate deal that got our
tax rates in competition with Germany
and China everything about Trump's
economic program in its initial stages
are to bring manufacturing jobs back to
United States the repatriation of the
trick you know three trillion dollars in
cash the entire centerpiece of the tax
bill of which I disagree with much of it
right and I fought to have more
progressive rates to higher incomes but
I think that's what Trump's done about
it's Obama in Obama's the secretary
treasurer is saying the new normal was
going to be under 2% growth there's
three and a half percent growth it does
not appear it's both the tax cut in the
spending now I disagree I would love to
have the spending cut because we have a
trillion dollar deficits going forward
but we are on a sugar high of kind of
Keynesian economics and so I just don't
see a say his actions you may not agree
he should have huge deficits at the same
time that he's given a massive tax cut
he's not used to but huge spending his
same times given a massive tax cut and
alike
argue against it but that's what's
drusen conv but everything is tied to
bringing the supply chain back from
China back to the industrial democracies
thank you I can see I didn't convert you
but enable chat later we're going to
take one final audience question I'll go
to the woman in the red coat or jumper
over here so in a country that from its
origins has relied on like cultural and
culturally and economically immigration
and diversity what going forward what
would be your ideal America and were
like reference to immigration and Asylum
seeking my and my and what I think is
that is look I come from immigrants you
know I'm Irish but it's a nation of
citizens so going forward you know even
the restrictions on legal immigration is
to make sure we have a massive primary
United States and that's under
utilization of african-american Hispanic
and working-class communities in the
tech jobs the whole reasons for limits
in immigration is to open up those
opportunities we've turned our entire
education system called stem science
technology engineering and math yet
Hispanics and african-americans donated
to the engineering schools I went before
I went to George Hannah Harvard I went
to a land grant University engineering
school today that engineering schools
seventy-five percent not Americans and
the reason is they pay their governments
pay forty five or forty seven thousand
dollars a year to go and in-state
students pay fifteen thousand that
arbitrage is what drives the
profitability or the cash flow in the
engineering school so no America is
gonna be diverse there's no doubt about
that that's a but what unites us is
economic national what unites is a
citizenship what I'm trying to focus on
is the maximization of citizenship value
not shareholder value okay in this
populist movement America is gonna be
diversed it's one of the it's one of the
the great powers of America is to
assimilate people and get them to buy
into the system so stopping illegal
immigration is going to take pressure
off working-class people
the reason working-class people wages
can't rise why is it the chamber it's
the chamber of commerce in the
Republican establishment I fight on the
illegal immigration why because they
want more labor because they understand
it suppresses wages and
margins in construction in oilfield
services right in agriculture the exact
thing you're seeing now wages rise
remember Wall Street when they see wages
rise the first thing they want is the
Federal Reserve to raise interest rates
the big bad headline on a Wall Street
Journal is wages rise
I think wage wages rising is a great
thing and that's that economy between
ourselves and in traditional Republicans
so no America is going to be diverse in
President Trump it's even Tom Cotton's
program of limiting immigration to
500,000 a year is it change it to a
meritocracy
so no America is gonna be diverse you
have to stop mass illegal immigration we
have to it's destroying the working
class in our country I think Trump's
doing a very good job with it what about
making legal immigration more difficult
for non-americans it's not making it
more difficult it's it's what it's doing
is making it it's turning it to a
meritocracy it's getting rid of the
chain migration it's getting rid of
other elements is turning into a
meritocracy and I think that that is I
think it's the consensus of the American
people I think the country has to go to
that I think you have to go to some sort
of meritocracy so you're taking people
in the country that the country has a
direct need for so I think and and
here's the great thing about it we're so
far from getting that passed that's
going to be the next big debate and I'm
I'm open to that debate I'm not sitting
in a magic wand saying hey this is way
it's got to be we're gonna have to win
elections we're gonna have to take more
control the Senate we're going to get
the house back before that ever becomes
real that's got a fire people don't have
if the people in the working-class
parties don't have in the Trump movement
don't have energy and urgency to do that
then we're not gonna win thank you mr.
Bowden before thank you for coming I
want to thank every audience member
you've been here for an hour and 15
minutes more than you expected I want to
thank you mr. bannon for missing your
flights and you can answer our questions
that's exactly the spirit all we're
trying to do here so I want to thank you
for that and thank you for coming here
to take those questions honestly they
Jenna thank you for coming mr. powner
thank you for joining us thank you
[Applause]
you
[Music]